# Homomorphic Encryption

This repository provide a simple API for homomorphic encryption.

Homorphic encryption is still subject to researches nowadays, and no secure and fast system has already been found. This means that this library is slow and shouldn't be used in production.
Furthermore, randomness is generated by `rand()`, which is known for being inappropriate for cryptography.

## Usage

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/mathisbot/homomorph.git
    ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd homomorph
    ```

3. Compile with
    ```
    gcc -Ofast -Wall -o build/bit_encryption.exe tests/bit_encryption.c src/include/homom/**.c src/include/pol/**.c -Isrc/include/homom -Isrc/include/pol
    ```
    Note that functions using SSE2 instructions are still WIP.

## System

### Definition

The system is defined by 4 parameters :
$d, d', \delta < d, \tau \in \mathbb{N}$

A secret key $S$ is a randomly generated polynomial of degree $d$ in $\mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}_{d}[X]$.

A public key $T$ is $\tau$-list of polynomials in $\mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}_{d+d'}[X]$. These polynomials are generated as follows :

- Generate two random polynomials :
    - $Q_i \in \mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}_{d'}[X]$
    - $R_i \in \mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}_{\delta}[X]$
- $T_i$ is the sum $SQ_i + XR_i$

So that $T = (SQ_i + XR_i)_{1 \leq i \leq \tau}$

### Cipher

#### Encryption
Encryption of bit $x$ is done as follows :

- Generate $\mathcal{U} \in \mathcal{P}([1..\tau])$
- Encrypted polynomial is $C = (\sum_{i\in\mathcal{U}} T_i) + x$

$\mathcal{U}$ is used in order to protect against bruteforce. Indeed, if the sum was made over $[1..\tau]$, a malicious person could compute the cipher of $0$ and $1$ and easily compare them with the desired cipher. With $\mathcal{U}$ in the way, the number of possibilities is now $2^\tau$.

#### Decryption
Decryption of a cipher $C$ is done as follows :

- Compute $R$ the quotient of the euclidean division of $C$ by $S$
- $x$ is $R$ evaluated at $0$

This is why $\delta$ is under the condition $\delta < d$. Indeed, we recall that $C = \sum_{i\in\mathcal{U}} (SQ_i + XR_i) + x$, where $R_i$ has a degree of at most $\delta$, and $Q_i$ of at most $d'$. Thus, $R$ is exactly $(\sum_{i\in\mathcal{U}} XR_i) + x$, which gives $x$ when evaluated at $0$.

### Properties

This system is partially homomorphic, which means that it is not homomorphic with every operations.
However, one can prove that it is homomorphic with every [boolean function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boolean_function#:~:text=In%20mathematics%2C%20a%20Boolean%20function,function\)%2C%20used%20in%20logic.) of degree less or equal than $\frac{d}{\delta}$.
